\ingroup module_hidden
\page cbmc-guide CBMC Guide

\author Martin Brain

Background Information
======================

First off; read the \ref cprover-manual "CProver Manual". It describes
how to get, build and use CBMC and SATABS. This document covers the
internals of the system and how to get started on development.

Documentation
-------------

Apart from the (user-orientated) CPROVER manual and this document, most
of the rest of the documentation is inline in the code as `doxygen` and
some comments. A man page for CBMC, goto-cc and goto-instrument is
contained in the `doc/` directory and gives some options for these
tools. All of these could be improved and patches are very welcome. In
some cases the algorithms used are described in the relevant papers.

Architecture
------------

CPROVER is structured in a similar fashion to a compiler. It has
language specific front-ends which perform limited syntactic analysis
and then convert to an intermediate format. The intermediate format can
be output to files (this is what `goto-cc` does) and are (informally)
referred to as “goto binaries” or “goto programs”. The back-end are
tools process this format, either directly from the front-end or from
it’s saved output. These include a wide range of analysis and
transformation tools (see Section \[section:other-apps\]).

Coding Standards
----------------

CPROVER is written in a fairly minimalist subset of C++; templates and
meta-programming are avoided except where necessary. The standard
library is used but in many cases there are alternatives provided in
`util/` (see Section \[section:util\]) which are preferred.  Boost is
not used.

Patches should be formatted so that code is indented with two space
characters, not tab and wrapped to 75 or 72 columns. Headers for doxygen
should be given (and preferably filled!) and the author will be the
person who first created the file.

Identifiers should be lower case with underscores to separate words.
Types (classes, structures and typedefs) names must[^1] end with a `t`.
Types that model types (i.e. C types in the program that is being
interpreted) are named with `_typet`. For example `ui_message_handlert`
rather than `UI_message_handlert` or `UIMessageHandler` and
`union_typet`.

How to Contribute
-----------------

Fixes, changes and enhancements to the CPROVER code base should be
developed against the `trunk` version and submitted to Daniel as patches
produced by `diff -Naur` or `svn diff`. Entire applications are best
developed independently (`git svn` is a popular choice for tracking the
main trunk but also having local development) until it is clear what
their utility, future and maintenance is likely to be.

Other Useful Code {#section:other-apps}
-----------------

The CPROVER subversion archive contains a number of separate programs.
Others are developed separately as patches or separate
branches.Interfaces are have been and are continuing to stablise but
older code may require work to compile and function correctly.

In the main archive:

* `CBMC`:   A bounded model checking tool for C and C++. See Section
  \[section:CBMC\].

* `goto-cc`:   A drop-in, flag compatible replacement for GCC and other
  compilers that produces goto-programs rather than executable binaries.
  See Section \[section:goto-cc\].

* `goto-instrument`:   A collection of functions for instrumenting and
  modifying goto-programs. See Section \[section:goto-instrument\].

Model checkers and similar tools:

* `SatABS`:   A CEGAR model checker using predicate abstraction. Is
  roughly 10,000 lines of code (on top of the CPROVER code base) and is
  developed in its own subversion archive. It uses an external model
  checker to find potentially feasible paths. Key limitations are
  related to code with pointers and there is scope for significant
  improvement.

* `Scratch`:   Alistair Donaldson’s k-induction based tool. The
  front-end is in the old project CVS and some of the functionality is
  in `goto-instrument`.

* `Wolverine`:   An implementation of Ken McMillan’s IMPACT algorithm
  for sequential programs. In the old project CVS.

* `C-Impact`:   An implementation of Ken McMillan’s IMPACT algorithm for
  parallel programs. In the old project CVS.

* `LoopFrog`:   A loop summarisation tool.

* `???`:   Christoph’s termination analyser.

Test case generation:

* `cover`:   A basic test-input generation tool. In the old
    project CVS.

* `FShell`:   A test-input generation tool that allows the user to
  specify the desired coverage using a custom language (which includes
  regular expressions over paths). It uses incremental SAT and is thus
  faster than the naïve “add assertions one at a time and use the
  counter-examples” approach. Is developed in its own subversion.

Alternative front-ends and input translators:

* `Scoot`:   A System-C to C translator. Probably in the old
    project CVS.

* `???`:   A Simulink to C translator. In the old project CVS.

* `???`:   A Verilog front-end. In the old project CVS.

* `???`:   A converter from Codewarrior project files to Makefiles. In
    the old project CVS.

Other tools:

* `ai`:   Leo’s hybrid abstract interpretation / CEGAR tool.

* `DeltaCheck?`:   Ajitha’s slicing tool, aimed at locating changes and
  differential verification. In the old project CVS.

There are tools based on the CPROVER framework from other research
groups which are not listed here.

Source Walkthrough
==================

This section walks through the code bases in a rough order of interest /
comprehensibility to the new developer.

`doc`
-----

At the moment just contains the CBMC man page.

`regression/`
-------------

The regression tests are currently being moved from CVS. The
`regression/` directory contains all of those that have
been moved. They are grouped into directories for each of the tools.
Each of these contains a directory per test case, containing a C or C++
file that triggers the bug and a `.dsc` file that describes
the tests, expected output and so on. There is a Perl script,
`test.pl` that is used to invoke the tests as:

    ../test.pl -c PATH_TO_CBMC

The `–help` option gives instructions for use and the
format of the description files.

`src/`
------

The source code is divided into a number of sub-directories, each
containing the code for a different part of the system. In the top level
files there are only a few files:

* `config.inc`:   The user-editable configuration parameters for the
  build process. The main use of this file is setting the paths for the
  various external SAT solvers that are used. As such, anyone building
  from source will likely need to edit this.

* `Makefile`:   The main systems Make file. Parallel builds are
  supported and encouraged; please don’t break them!

* `common`:   System specific magic required to get the system to build.
  This should only need to be edited if porting CBMC to a new platform /
  build environment.

* `doxygen.cfg`:   The config file for doxygen.cfg

### `util/` {#section:util}

`util/` contains the low-level data structures and
manipulation functions that are used through-out the CPROVER code-base.
For almost any low-level task, the code required is probably in
`util/`. Key files include:

* `irep.h`:   This contains the definition of `irept`, the basis of many
  of the data structures in the project. They should not be used
  directly; one of the derived classes should be used. For more
  information see Section \[section:irept\].

* `expr.h`:   The parent class for all of the expressions. Provides a
  number of generic functions, `exprt` can be used with these but when
  creating data, subclasses of `exprt` should be used.

* `std_expr.h`:   Provides subclasses of `exprt` for common kinds of
  expression for example `plus_exprt`, `minus_exprt`,
  `dereference_exprt`. These are the intended interface for creating
  expressions.

* `std_types.h`:   Provides subclasses of `typet` (a subclass of
  `irept`) to model C and C++ types. This is one of the preferred
  interfaces to `irept`. The front-ends handle type promotion and most
  coercision so the type system and checking goto-programs is simpler
  than C.

* `dstring.h`:   The CPROVER string class. This enables sharing between
  strings which significantly reduces the amount of memory required and
  speeds comparison. `dstring` should not be used directly, `irep_idt`
  should be used instead, which (dependent on build options) is an alias
  for `dstring`.

* `mp_arith.h`:   The wrapper class for multi-precision arithmetic
  within CPROVER. Also see `arith_tools.h`.

* `ieee_float.h`:   The arbitrary precision float model used within
  CPROVER. Based on `mp_integer`s.

* `context.h`:   A generic container for symbol table like constructs
  such as namespaces. Lookup gives type, location of declaration, name,
  ‘pretty name’, whether it is static or not.

* `namespace.h`:   The preferred interface for the context class. The
  key function is `lookup` which converts a string (`irep_idt`) to a
  symbol which gives the scope of declaration, type and so on. This
  works for functions as well as variables.

### `langapi/`

This contains the basic interfaces and support classes for programming
language front ends. Developers only really need look at this if they
are adding support for a new language. It’s main users are the two (in
trunk) language front-ends; `ansi-c/` and
`cpp/`.

### `ansi-c/`

Contains the front-end for ANSI C, plus a variety of common extensions.
This parses the file, performs some basic sanity checks (this is one
area in which the UI could be improved; patches most welcome) and then
produces a goto-program (see below). The parser is a traditional Flex /
Bison system.

`internal_addition.c` contains the implementation of various ‘magic’
functions that are that allow control of the analysis from the source
code level. These include assertions, assumptions, atomic blocks, memory
fences and rounding modes.

The `library/` subdirectory contains versions of some of the C standard
header files that make use of the CPROVER built-in functions. This
allows CPROVER programs to be ‘aware’ of the functionality and model it
correctly. Examples include `stdio.c`, `string.c`, `setjmp.c` and
various threading interfaces.

### `cpp/`

This directory contains the C++ front-end. It supports the subset of C++
commonly found in embedded and system applications. Consequentially it
doesn’t have full support for templates and many of the more advanced
and obscure C++ features. The subset of the language that can be handled
is being extended over time so bug reports of programs that cannot be
parsed are useful.

The functionality is very similar to the ANSI C front end; parsing the
code and converting to goto-programs. It makes use of code from
`langapi` and `ansi-c`.

### `goto-programs/`

Goto programs are the intermediate representation of the CPROVER tool
chain. They are language independent and similar to many of the compiler
intermediate languages. Section \[section:goto-programs\] describes the
`goto_programt` and `goto_functionst` data structures in detail. However
it useful to understand some of the basic concepts. Each function is a
list of instructions, each of which has a type (one of 18 kinds of
instruction), a code expression, a guard expression and potentially some
targets for the next instruction. They are not natively in static
single-assign (SSA) form. Transitions are nondeterministic (although in
practise the guards on the transitions normally cover form a disjoint
cover of all possibilities). Local variables have non-deterministic
values if they are not initialised.  Variables and data within the
program is commonly one of three types (parameterised by width):
`unsignedbv_typet`, `signedbv_typet` and `floatbv_typet`, see
`util/std_types.h` for more information. Goto programs can be serialised
in a binary (wrapped in ELF headers) format or in XML (see the various
`_serialization` files).

The `cbmc` option `–show-goto-programs` is often a good starting point
as it outputs goto-programs in a human readable form. However there are
a few things to be aware of. Functions have an internal name (for
example `c::f00`) and a ‘pretty name’ (for example `f00`) and which is
used depends on whether it is internal or being presented to the user.
The `main` method is the ‘logical’ main which is not necessarily the
main method from the code. In the output `NONDET` is use to represent a
nondeterministic assignment to a variable. Likewise `IF` as a beautified
`GOTO` instruction where the guard expression is used as the condition.
`RETURN` instructions may be dropped if they precede an `END_FUNCTION`
instruction. The comment lines are generated from the `locationt` field
of the `instructiont` structure.

`goto-programs/` is one of the few places in the CPROVER codebase that
templates are used. The intention is to allow the general architecture
of program and functions to be used for other formalisms.  At the moment
most of the templates have a single instantiation; for example
`goto_functionst` and `goto_function_templatet` and `goto_programt` and
`goto_program_templatet`.

### `goto-symex/`

This directory contains a symbolic evaluation system for goto-programs.
This takes a goto-program and translates it to an equation system by
traversing the program, branching and merging and unwinding loops as
needed. Each reverse goto has a separate counter (the actual counting is
handled by `cbmc`, see the `–unwind` and `–unwind-set` options). When a
counter limit is reach, an assertion can be added to explicitly show
when analysis is incomplete.  The symbolic execution includes constant
folding so loops that have a constant number of iterations will be
handled completely (assuming the unwinding limit is sufficient).

The output of the symbolic execution is a system of equations; an object
containing a list of `symex_target_elements`, each of which are
equalities between `expr` expressions. See `symex_target_equation.h`.
The output is in static, single assignment (SSA) form, which is *not*
the case for goto-programs.

### `pointer-analysis/`

To perform symbolic execution on programs with dereferencing of
arbitrary pointers, some alias analysis is needed.  `pointer-analysis`
contains the three levels of analysis; flow and context insensitive,
context sensitive and flow and context sensitive. The code needed is
subtle and sophisticated and thus there may be bugs.

### `solvers/`

The `solvers/` directory contains interfaces to a number of
different decision procedures, roughly one per directory.

* prop/:   The basic and common functionality. The key file is
  `prop_conv.h` which defines `prop_convt`.  This is the base class that
  is used to interface to the decision procedures. The key functions are
  `convert` which takes an `exprt` and converts it to the appropriate,
  solver specific, data structures and `dec_solve` (inherited from
  `decision_proceduret`) which invokes the actual decision procedures.
  Individual decision procedures (named `*_dect`) objects can be created
  but `prop_convt` is the preferred interface for code that uses them.

* flattening/:   A library that converts operations to bit-vectors,
  including calling the conversions in `floatbv` as necessary. Is
  implemented as a simple conversion (with caching) and then a
  post-processing function that adds extra constraints. This is not used
  by the SMT or CVC back-ends.

* dplib/:   Provides the `dplib_dect` object which used the decision
  procedure library from “Decision Procedures : An Algorithmic Point of
  View”.

* cvc/:   Provides the `cvc_dect` type which interfaces to the old (pre
  SMTLib) input format for the CVC family of solvers.  This format is
  still supported by depreciated in favour of SMTLib 2.

* smt1/:   Provides the `smt1_dect` type which converts the formulae to
  SMTLib version 1 and then invokes one of Boolector, CVC3, OpenSMT,
  Yices, MathSAT or Z3. Again, note that this format is depreciated.

* smt2/:   Provides the `smt2_dect` type which functions in a similar
  way to `smt1_dect`, calling Boolector, CVC3, MathSAT, Yices or Z3.
  Note that the interaction with the solver is batched and uses
  temporary files rather than using the interactive command supported by
  SMTLib 2. With the `–fpa` option, this output mode will not flatten
  the floating point arithmetic and instead output the proposed SMTLib
  floating point standard.

* qbf/:   Back-ends for a variety of QBF solvers. Appears to be no
  longer used or maintained.

* sat/:   Back-ends for a variety of SAT solvers and DIMACS output.

### `cbmc/` {#section:CBMC}

This contains the first full application. CBMC is a bounded model
checker that uses the front ends (`ansi-c`, `cpp`, goto-program or
others) to create a goto-program, `goto-symex` to unwind the loops the
given number of times and to produce and equation system and finally
`solvers` to find a counter-example (technically, `goto-symex` is then
used to construct the counter-example trace).

### `goto-cc/` {#section:goto-cc}

`goto-cc` is a compiler replacement that just performs the first step of
the process; converting C or C++ programs to goto-binaries. It is
intended to be dropped in to an existing build procedure in place of the
compiler, thus it emulates flags that would affect the semantics of the
code produced. Which set of flags are emulated depends on the naming of
the `goto-cc/` binary. If it is called `goto-cc` then it emulates GCC
flags, `goto-armcc` emulates the ARM compiler, `goto-cl` emulates VCC
and `goto-cw` emulates the Code Warrior compiler. The output of this
tool can then be used with `cbmc` or `goto-instrument`.

### `goto-instrument/` {#section:goto-instrument}

The `goto-instrument/` directory contains a number of tools, one per
file, that are built into the `goto-instrument` program. All of them
take in a goto-program (produced by `goto-cc`) and either modify it or
perform some analysis. Examples include `nondet_static.cpp` which
initialises static variables to a non-deterministic value,
`nondet_volatile.cpp` which assigns a non-deterministic value to any
volatile variable before it is read and `weak_memory.h` which performs
the necessary transformations to reason about weak memory models. The
exception to the “one file for each piece of functionality” rule are the
program instrumentation options (mostly those given as “Safety checks”
in the `goto-instrument` help text) which are included in the
`goto-program/` directory. An example of this is
`goto-program/stack_depth.h` and the general rule seems to be that
transformations and instrumentation that `cbmc` uses should be in
`goto-program/`, others should be in `goto-instrument`.

`goto-instrument` is a very good template for new analysis tools. New
developers are advised to copy the directory, remove all files apart
from `main.*`, `parseoptions.*` and the `Makefile` and use these as the
skeleton of their application. The `doit()` method in `parseoptions.cpp`
is the preferred location for the top level control for the program.

### `linking/`

Probably the code to emulate a linker. This allows multiple ‘object
files’ (goto-programs) to be linked into one ‘executable’ (another
goto-program), thus allowing existing build systems to be used to build
complete goto-program binaries.

### `big-int/`

CPROVER is distributed with its own multi-precision arithmetic library;
mainly for historical and portability reasons. The library is externally
developed and thus `big-int` contains the source as it is distributed.
This should not be used directly, see `util/mp_arith.h` for the CPROVER
interface.

### `xmllang/`

CPROVER has optional XML output for results and there is an XML format
for goto-programs. It is used to interface to various IDEs. The
`xmllang/` directory contains the parser and helper functions for
handling this format.

### `floatbv/`

This library contains the code that is used to convert floating point
variables (`floatbv`) to bit vectors (`bv`).  This is referred to as
‘bit-blasting’ and is called in the `solver` code during conversion to
SAT or SMT. It also contains the abstraction code described in the
FMCAD09 paper.

Data Structures
===============

This section discusses some of the key data-structures used in the
CPROVER codebase.

`irept` {#section:irept}
------------------------

There are a large number of kind of tree structured or tree-like data in
CPROVER. `irept` provides a single, unified representation for all of
these, allowing structure sharing and reference counting of data. As
such `irept` is the basic unit of data in CPROVER.  Each `irept`
contains[^2] a basic unit of data (of type `dt`) which contains four
things:

* `data`:   A string[^3], which is returned when the `id()` function is
  used.

* `named_sub`:   A map from `irep_namet` (a string) to an `irept`. This
  is used for named children, i.e.  subexpressions, parameters, etc.

* `comments`:   Another map from `irep_namet` to `irept` which is used
  for annotations and other ‘non-semantic’ information

* `sub`:   A vector of `irept` which is used to store ordered but
  unnamed children.

The `irept::pretty` function outputs the contents of an `irept` directly
and can be used to understand an debug problems with `irept`s.

On their own `irept`s do not “mean” anything; they are effectively
generic tree nodes. Their interpretation depends on the contents of
result of the `id` function (the `data`) field. `util/irep_ids.txt`
contains the complete list of `id` values. During the build process it
is used to generate `util/irep_ids.h` which gives constants for each id
(named `ID_`). These can then be used to identify what kind of data
`irept` stores and thus what can be done with it.

To simplify this process, there are a variety of classes that inherit
from `irept`, roughly corresponding to the ids listed (i.e.  `ID_or`
(the string `"or”`) corresponds to the class `or_exprt`). These give
semantically relevant accessor functions for the data; effectively
different APIs for the same underlying data structure. None of these
classes add fields (only methods) and so static casting can be used. The
inheritance graph of the subclasses of `irept` is a useful starting
point for working out how to manipulate data.

There are three main groups of classes (or APIs); those derived from
`typet`, `codet` and `exprt` respectively. Although all of these inherit
from `irept`, these are the most abstract level that code should handle
data. If code is manipulating plain `irept`s then something is wrong
with the architecture of the code.

Many of the key descendent of `exprt` are declared in `std_expr.h`. All
expressions have a named subfield / annotation which gives the type of
the expression (slightly simplified from C/C++ as `unsignedbv_typet`,
`signedbv_typet`, `floatbv_typet`, etc.). All type conversions are
explicit with an expression with `id() == ID_typecast` and an ‘interface
class’ named `typecast_exprt`. One key descendent of `exprt` is
`symbol_exprt` which creates `irept` instances with the id of “symbol”.
These are used to represent variables; the name of which can be found
using the `get_identifier` accessor function.

`codet` inherits from `exprt` and is defined in `std_code.h`. They
represent executable code; statements in C rather than expressions. In
the front-end there are versions of these that hold whole code blocks,
but in goto-programs these have been flattened so that each `irept`
represents one sequence point (almost one line of code / one
semi-colon). The most common descendents of `codet` are `code_assignt`
so a common pattern is to cast the `codet` to an assignment and then
recurse on the expression on either side.

`goto-programs` {#section:goto-programs}
----------------------------------------

The common starting point for working with goto-programs is the
`read_goto_binary` function which populates an object of
`goto_functionst` type. This is defined in `goto_functions.h` and is an
instantiation of the template `goto_functions_templatet` which is
contained in `goto_functions_template.h`. They are wrappers around a map
from strings to `goto_programt`’s and iteration macros are provided.
Note that `goto_function_templatet` (no `s`) is defined in the same
header as `goto_functions_templatet` and is gives the C type for the
function and Boolean which indicates whether the body is available
(before linking this might not always be true). Also note the slightly
counter-intuitive naming; `goto_functionst` instances are the top level
structure representing the program and contain `goto_programt` instances
which represent the individual functions. At the time of writing
`goto_functionst` is the only instantiation of the template
`goto_functions_templatet` but other could be produced if a different
data-structures / kinds of models were needed for functions.

`goto_programt` is also an instantiation of a template. In a similar
fashion it is `goto_program_templatet` and allows the types of the guard
and expression used in instructions to be parameterised. Again, this is
currently the only use of the template. As such there are only really
helper functions in `goto_program.h` and thus `goto_program_template.h`
is probably the key file that describes the representation of (C)
functions in the goto-program format. It is reasonably stable and
reasonably documented and thus is a good place to start looking at the
code.

An instance of `goto_program_templatet` is effectively a list of
instructions (and inner template called `instructiont`). It is important
to use the copy and insertion functions that are provided as iterators
are used to link instructions to their predecessors and targets and
careless manipulation of the list could break these. Likewise there are
helper macros for iterating over the instructions in an instance of
`goto_program_templatet` and the use of these is good style and strongly
encouraged.

Individual instructions are instances of type `instructiont`. They
represent one step in the function.  Each has a type, an instance of
`goto_program_instruction_typet` which denotes what kind of instruction
it is. They can be computational (such as `ASSIGN` or `FUNCTION_CALL`),
logical (such as `ASSUME` and `ASSERT`) or informational (such as
`LOCATION` and `DEAD`). At the time of writing there are 18 possible
values for `goto_program_instruction_typet` / kinds of instruction.
Instructions also have a guard field (the condition under which it is
executed) and a code field (what the instruction does). These may be
empty depending on the kind of instruction. In the default
instantiations these are of type `exprt` and `codet` respectively and
thus covered by the previous discussion of `irept` and its descendents.
The next instructions (remembering that transitions are guarded by
non-deterministic) are given by the list `targets` (with the
corresponding list of labels `labels`) and the corresponding set of
previous instructions is get by `incoming_edges`. Finally `instructiont`
have informational `function` and `location` fields that indicate where
they are in the code.

[^1]: There are a couple of exceptions, including the graph classes

[^2]: Or references, if reference counted data sharing is enabled. It is
    enabled by default; see the `SHARING` macro.

[^3]: Unless `USE_STD_STRING` is set, this is actually
a `dstring` and thus an integer which is a reference into a string table
