.TH CRANGLER "1" "June 2022" "crangler-5.59.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
crangler \- C source transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B crangler [\-?] [\-h] [\-\-help]

.BI crangler \ file.json

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B crangler
is a command-line utility that makes changes to a preprocessed C file
that are prescribed in a JSON configuration file.

The supported transformations are:
.IP
Add a contract (pre/post/assigns) to a named C function.
.IP
Add a loop contract to a loop identified by the name of the function containing
the loop and a loop number.
.IP
Remove the
.B static
storage classifier from a function or a variable.
.IP
Replace a function call by a call to a stub.
.PP
The resulting source file is written to standard output or to a file specified
in the JSON configuration.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following JSON configuration file makes
.B crangler
preprocess
.IR remove_static1.c .
While processing this file to produce a preprocessed result, no non-standard
include paths or defines reqired.
Transformations configured here are
removing the
.B static
storage classifier from all functions matching the regular expression
.BR foobar[12] ,
and replacing calls to \fIbar\fR by calls to a function called \fIbar_stub\fR.
No objects are listed that require transformation.
The result is written to standard output.
.EX
{
  "sources": [
    "remove_static1.c"
  ],
  "includes": [],
  "defines": [],
  "functions": [
    {
      "foobar[12]": [
        "remove static"
      ],
      "bar": [
        "stub bar_stub"
      ]
    }
  ],
  "objects": [],
  "output": "stdout"
}
.EE
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All tools honor the TMPDIR environment variable when generating temporary
files and directories.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a problem please create an issue at
.B https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/issues
.SH COPYRIGHT
2021, Daniel Kroening
