.TH GOTO-CC "1" "June 2022" "goto-cc-5.59.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
goto\-cc \- C/C++ to goto compiler
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B goto-cc [options]

.B goto-gcc [options]

.B goto-ld [options]

.B goto-as [options]

.B goto-bcc [options]

.B goto-armcc [options]

.B goto-cw [options]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B goto\-cc
reads source code, and generates a goto-binary. Its
command-line interface is designed to mimic that of
.BR gcc (1).
Note in particular that \fBgoto-cc\fR distinguishes between compiling
and linking phases, just as \fBgcc\fR(1) does. \fBcbmc\fR(1) expects a goto-binary
for which linking has been completed.
.PP
The basename of the file that is used to invoke \fBgoto-cc\fR controls which
behavior will be emulated. This is typically accomplished by using symbolic
links.
.IP
\fBgoto-cc\fR: invokes the default system compiler as preprocessor and just
builds a goto-binary.
.IP
\fBgoto-gcc\fR: invokes \fBgcc\fR(1) as preprocessor and builds an \fBelf\fR(5)
object file including an additional \fIgoto-cc\fR section that holds the goto
binary.
.IP
\fBgoto-ld\fR: only performs linking, and also builds an \fBelf\fR(5) object as
above.
.IP
\fBgoto-as\fR: invokes the system assembler \fBas\fR(1) and includes the
original assembly source as a string in the output file.
.IP
\fBgoto-bcc\fR: invokes \fBbcc\fR(1) as preprocessor.
.IP
\fBgoto-armcc\fR: invokes \fBarmcc\fR as preprocessor and enables support for
the ARM's C dialect and command-line options.
.IP
\fBgoto-cw\fR: invokes \fBmwcceppc\fR as preprocessor and enables support for
CodeWarrior's C dialect and command-line options.
.SH OPTIONS
.B goto\-cc
understands the options of \fBgcc\fR(1) plus the following.
.TP
\fB\-\-verbosity\fR \fIN\fR
Set verbosity level to \fIN\fR, which defaults to 1 (only errors are printed). A
verbosity of 0 disables all output. Using a verbosity of 2 or greater, or using
\fB\-Wall\fR enables warnings. Verbosity levels 4, 6, 8, 9, or 10 add increasing
amounts of debug information.
.TP
\fB\-\-function\fR \fIname\fR
Set entry point to \fIname\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-native\-compiler\fR \fIcmd\fR
Invoke \fIcmd\fR as preprocessor or compiler.
.TP
\fB\-\-native\-linker\fR \fIcmd\fR
Invoke \fIcmd\fR as linker.
.TP
\fB\-\-native\-assembler\fR \fIcmd\fR
Invoke \fIcmd\fR as assembler (\fBgoto\-as\fR only).
.TP
\fB\-\-export\-file\-local\-symbols\fR
Name-mangle and export file-local (aka \fBstatic\fR) functions. Name mangling
prefixes each symbol name by \fB__CPROVER_file_local\fR and the basename of the
file. For example,

.EX
.in +4n
\fB// foo.c\fP
\fBstatic\fP int \fBbar\fP();
.in
.EE

yields a globally visible \fI__CPROVER_file_local_foo_c_bar\fR function.
Note that this approach mangles all functions contained in a translation unit.
We recommend using \fBcrangler\fR(1) as a more configurable alternative.
.TP
\fB\-\-mangle\-suffix \fIsuffix\fR
Append \fIsuffix\fR to exported file-local symbols. Use this option together
with \fB\-\-export\-file\-local\-symbols\fR when multiple files of the same base
name contain a \fBstatic\fR function of the same name. If so, use a unique
suffix in at least one of the \fBgoto\-cc\fR invocations used in compiling those
files.
.TP
\fB\-\-print\-rejected\-preprocessed\-source\fR \fIfile\fR
Copy failing (preprocessed) source to \fIfile\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-object\-bits\fR \fIN\fR
Configure the number of bits used for object numbering in CBMC's pointer encoding.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All tools honor the TMPDIR environment variable when generating temporary
files and directories.
.B goto\-cc
aims to accept all environment variables that \fBgcc\fR(1) does.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a problem please create an issue at
.B https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR as (1),
.BR bcc (1),
.BR cbmc (1),
.BR crangler (1),
.BR elf (5),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
2006\-2018, Daniel Kroening, Michael Tautschnig, Christoph Wintersteiger
