.TH GOTO-SYNTHESIZER "1" "December 2022" "goto-synthesizer-5.59.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
goto\-synthesizer \- Synthesize and apply loop contracts of goto binaries.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
.B goto\-synthesizer [\-?] [\-h] [\-\-help]
show help
.TP
.B goto\-synthesizer \-\-version
show version and exit
.TP
.B goto\-synthesizer [options] \fIin\fR [\fIout\fR]
perform synthesis and loop-contracts transformation
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBgoto-synthesis\fR reads a GOTO binary, performs loop-contracts synthesis and
program transformation for the synthesized contracts, and then writes the
resulting program as GOTO binary on disk.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-loop\-contracts\-no\-unwind\fR
do not unwind transformed loops after applying the synthesized loop contracts
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\-loop\-contracts
dump the synthesized loop contracts as JSON
.TP
\fB\-\-json-\output\fR \fIfile\fR
specify the output destination of the loop-contracts JSON
.SS "Backend options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-object\-bits\fR n
number of bits used for object addresses
.TP
\fB\-\-sat\-solver\fR solver
use specified SAT solver
.TP
\fB\-\-external\-sat\-solver\fR cmd
command to invoke SAT solver process
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-sat\-preprocessor\fR
disable the SAT solver's simplifier
.TP
\fB\-\-dimacs\fR
generate CNF in DIMACS format
.TP
\fB\-\-beautify\fR
beautify the counterexample
(greedy heuristic)
.TP
\fB\-\-smt1\fR
use default SMT1 solver (obsolete)
.TP
\fB\-\-smt2\fR
use default SMT2 solver (Z3)
.TP
\fB\-\-bitwuzla\fR
use Bitwuzla
.TP
\fB\-\-boolector\fR
use Boolector
.TP
\fB\-\-cprover\-smt2\fR
use CPROVER SMT2 solver
.TP
\fB\-\-cvc3\fR
use CVC3
.TP
\fB\-\-cvc4\fR
use CVC4
.TP
\fB\-\-cvc5\fR
use CVC5
.TP
\fB\-\-mathsat\fR
use MathSAT
.TP
\fB\-\-yices\fR
use Yices
.TP
\fB\-\-z3\fR
use Z3
.TP
\fB\-\-fpa\fR
use theory of floating\-point arithmetic
.TP
\fB\-\-refine\fR
use refinement procedure (experimental)
.TP
\fB\-\-refine\-arrays\fR
use refinement for arrays only
.TP
\fB\-\-refine\-arithmetic\fR
refinement of arithmetic expressions only
.TP
\fB\-\-max\-node\-refinement\fR
maximum refinement iterations for
arithmetic expressions
.TP
\fB\-\-incremental\-smt2\-solver\fR \fIcmd\fR
Use the incremental SMT backend where \fIcmd\fR is the command to invoke the SMT
solver of choice.
.br
Example invocations:
.br
  --incremental-smt2-solver 'z3 -smt2 -in' (use the Z3 solver).
.br
  --incremental-smt2-solver 'cvc5 --lang=smtlib2.6 --incremental' (use the CVC5 solver).
.sp
Note that:
.br
The solver name must be in the "PATH" or be an executable with full path.
.br
The SMT solver should accept incremental SMTlib v2.6 formatted input from the stdin.
.br
The SMT solver should support the QF_AUFBV logic.
.TP
\fB\-\-outfile\fR filename
output formula to given file
.TP
\fB\-\-dump\-smt\-formula\fR filename
output smt incremental formula to the given file
.TP
\fB\-\-write\-solver\-stats\-to\fR json\-file
collect the solver query complexity
.SS "User-interface options:"
.TP
\fB\-\-xml\-ui\fR
use XML\-formatted output
.TP
\fB\-\-json\-ui\fR
use JSON\-formatted output
.TP
\fB\-\-verbosity\fR \fIn\fR
verbosity level
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All tools honor the TMPDIR environment variable when generating temporary
files and directories.
.SH BUGS
If you encounter a problem please create an issue at
.B https://github.com/diffblue/cbmc/issues
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cbmc (1),
.BR goto-cc (1)
.BR goto-instrument (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
2022, Qinheping Hu
